>> Brian Holt: We talked
a little bit about tags.
Let's talk a little bit more about tags.
So far, I've just kind of been
telling you to put the colon there and
just making you go through it.
A tag can be anything.
You can put anything you want in the tag.
Notice that we were doing Jammy for
Ubuntu, right?
But if you go look in here,
let's go look at Ubuntu in here.
>> Brian Holt: So Jammy is really just an
alias for 22.04, but it's much simpler for
my mind to remember Jammy
as opposed to 22.04.
So they do that so that you're
able to kind of recall those as
opposed to just having to
remember the name of the number.
Mantic is their unstable
one that they're doing, or
development version that they're doing,
and then Noble is the next stable one.
I don't know if it's actually stable yet.
I don't really keep so close up to
date with what Ubuntu's releasing,
but eventually,
Noble will be the next release of Ubuntu.
It's always like Jammy jellyfish or
focal fox,
it's always alliteration for Ubuntu.
You can see that they have various
different architectures that they support,
which actually ends up being really
important because I'm on a MacBook,
I have to pull arm compatible images.
But Docker handles all of that for you.
But if someone releases a new
container and they don't compile
it in your particular flavor of
instruction set, you'll have some issues.
Because this is a MacBook
it has Rosetta so
it'll still run I'll just be a lot
slower and a lot less efficient.
But just something to keep in mind.
I'm sure with the new surfaces that
Microsoft is releasing that are all ARM
based will have the same issues as well.
We talked a little bit that if you
don't put anything there it's gonna
assume that you meant latest,
which is not always what you want.
>> Brian Holt: And, yeah,
we talked about what Alpine Linux is, but
we're gonna get really into depth with it.
Alpine Linux is basically the last time I
taught this course was by far the smallest
distribution of Linux, right?
Not even close.
Now it has some pretty stiff competition.
There's like four or
five distributions of Linux that
are competing to be like the default
container operating system.
Still lots of people use Alpine.
It's a very well understood container,
so people understand what to do with it.
But anyway,
we'll get to that here in a little bit.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, this is a good
pro-tip to just kinda keep in the back of
your head.
With your development container, so
whatever you're using to develop stuff,
use the full Debian and all of it.
Don't use the slim one.
Have it be 5 gigs and
include all of your development tools.
Do all the stuff that you need to do.
And then when you ship stuff to production
ship that in Alpine or distroless or
something like that so that you have less
security surface area in your containers.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
you'll get the best of both worlds.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so that's tags, we
did talk a little bit about the CLI, but
we'll just talk a couple more about
some more features of the CLI.
This is my favorite demo, so
we're definitely gonna do this.
Make this small for just a second.
Well, so I'm gonna run this command,
docker pull jterpin/hollywood.
>> Brian Holt: So I pulled it, what pull
does, you can ignore the deprecation,
just no one cares, is it all does is
just pulls it into your cache, right?
So it goes out to Docker Hub,
it downloads it, and
then it doesn't do anything with it.
Okay, and then now that I've
pulled it into my cache,
I don't have to wait for it to download.
So I can say, Docker run Hollywood,
and let's just make this full screen.
>> Brian Holt: So
what this container is for
is you run this on an airplane and
you see who gets nervous.
It's not doing anything other than just
running a bunch of random Linux commands.
And it makes you look like a hacker,
right?
[LAUGH] It's amazing, right?
>> Brian Holt: Super funny to me.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, it's called Hollywood
because it does absolutely nothing.
>> Brian Holt: And then I think this is
using screen to just divvy up your screen
in a bunch of different ways, kind of fun.
So let's run that in the background,
docker run, and as you remember,
-dit is in the background.
Name, I'm gonna call it hw for
Hollywood, --rm,
and then I'm gonna run jturpin/hollywood.
>> Brian Holt: Hollywood, okay, and
now you can see I had this
running in the background.
You can docker pause hw, and
you can see now that it is paused.
>> Brian Holt: And
I can say docker unpause hw and
lo and behold, it'll unpause it.
And then docker kill hw.
Why would you wanna do that?
I don't know, I haven't actually really
ever had a use case to pause a container,
but you can.
Figure it might be useful for someone.
We talked a little bit about docker exec,
so
I'm gonna run that in
the background again.
And I can say docker exec hw ps aux.
So if I run this,
>> Brian Holt: Exec says, okay,
connect to this container, hw,
and then run this command.
So now I'm seeing the output of everything
that's running in that
Hollywood container, right?
So this is what I was talking
about if I run docker attach,
docker attach hw, notice it actually
drops me directly into the whatever
is running in the foreground
into that particular process.
So now that I've hit CTRL+C,
I've actually stopped it from running,
which is not probably what I wanted.
>> Brian Holt: And then If I say
docker ps, it should be gone.
Yeah, see it's gone,
which is you have to be careful with
attach from that particular perspective.
Usually, it's exec what you want.
Import/export, we talked about export that
we exported it out into a tar file, right?
And then we used that later.
Import, as you might imagine, is you have
a container that exists outside of docker
and you wanna import it to
be used inside of docker.
That's what Docker import would do.
Docker history will show you
the history of like what's happened
with all the various
different layers inside.
We'll talk about layers in a bit.
But that'll show you when it was created,
when it's been modified,
all those kind of things.
>> Brian Holt: Docker info.
>> Brian Holt: It was just docker info.
Got it, okay.
Yeah, this is one that will show you
that's actually what's It's available and
how it's configured at the moment.
So we're not in debug mode,
there's the proxy, blah, blah, blah.
That can be useful for debugging purposes.
This is a cool one that
docker run -dit name,
we're gonna run a Mongo container
really quick, --rm mongo.
Okay, so I have Mongo running
in the background now,
which is MongoDB,
in case you're wondering.
And I'm gonna say docker top my-mongo.
This is gonna give me the output
of like ps aux, right?
That's what I've been doing over and
over again.
But you can see all that it's doing right
now is running an instance of the Mongo
daemon and with bind_ip_all.
>> Brian Holt: Kinda cool, right?
>> Brian Holt: Kill my-mongo.
>> Brian Holt: I don't think I have any,
I do, okay cool.
So let's say I wanted to get,
this is all of my dead container, right?
They're all status exited
down here on the right.
So, let's say I wanted to get rid of
one of these, but not all of them.
I can say docker rm, blah,
and that'll go through and
actually remove just that one, as opposed
to removing all of them at the same time.
By the same token,
I have docker images, right?
>> Brian Holt: Come on.
Let's say, I don't know,
I wanna get rid of this one.
You can say docker rmi,
the I for images and
I can just say I don't wanna have
this in my cache anymore and
it'll actually go through and
delete those out of your cache.
If you're done with it, you need to
free up some storage but not all of it.
That's one way you could do it.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, Docker restart.
probably no surprise to you that
that will restart a container.
Good to know.
You can search for stuff on Docker Hub by
saying Docker search this will show you
everything that It has Python in it.
>> Brian Holt: And yeah,
that's about all of the surface area
of Docker that I tend to use
on a monthly basis, probably.
It does more.
>> Brian Holt: And
we'll talk about a few of them, right?
But you can see here,
there's a bunch of them.